Introduction to bayesian thinking which is fundemantals in statistics. Includes linear algebra and probabilities.

Part 1 will cover "project zero".
Part 2 will cover "basic probability" and "conditional probability"
Part 3 wil cover "probability distribution" which together with bayes rule is crucial to solving the problem of robot localization.
Part 4 will cover "project one" where we'll implement somethig called a two-dimensional histogram filter.

Part 1, Joy ride:
    Part One - Drag Race: In this part you'll write code that lets a car jump over a grove of trees. This might not be a common scenario for a self driving car but it will get you familiar with the programming interface.
    Part Two - Circular Track: You'll write code that lets a car navigate a circular track. In doing so you'll explore the relationship between steering angle and turning radius.
    Part Three - Parallel Park: In this part you'll write a sequence of instructions that successfully parallel parks a car.

Tip

For Part Three, the simulator contains a little bit of noise each time you launch it. To help account for this, consider spending a second or two of time traveling slowly forward in the simulator before reversing into your parallel parking. You should also consider using a fairly low vehicle velocity at all times.

Troubleshooting

From time to time, the simulators in the workspaces need updates. If there is a red marker in the bottom left of your workspace, that means there has been a recent change to the workspace, but it won't automatically load to make sure it doesn't accidentally delete any changes you may have made.

If there is a red marker, you can use the reset data option to load the updates - however, you'll want to save down any of your own work to your own computer, if necessary, prior to doing so.

Even without the red marker, using reset data is a good option to sometimes clear up any issues. Alternatively, you may need to try accessing the workspace with a different browser.

