Continuous vs Discrete

Gaussian distributions are a type of continuous probability distribution. So before getting into the details about Gaussian distributions, let's review the differences between a continuous and discrete distribution.

As a reminder, a continuous probability distribution is associated with a continuous variable like height, weight, distance, velocity, angle, etc.

You've been working with a uniform continuous probability distribution like the following example.

On the other hand, a discrete distribution is associated with variables that can only take on certain values like coin flips, dice rolls or location on a grid. This is an example of a discrete distribution.
Continuous Distributions

The uniform continuous probability distribution is just one of many continuous probability distributions that exist. Take a look at this Wikipedia page, List of Continuous Distributions, just to get a sense for how many there are.

What do all of these distributions have in common? They represent the probability of events occurring for continuous variables. Different applications will use different distributions.

For example, when modeling probabilities of a spinning wheel, you used a uniform distribution. When modeling uncertainty in a sensor measurement, you'll use a Gaussian distribution.
Gaussian Distribution

In order to understand uncertainty in self-driving cars, you should at least have a basic knowledge of the Gaussian distribution. The uncertainty in a sensor measurement or the location of a pedestrian, for example, is oftentimes modeled with a Gaussian distribution.

This next part of the lesson will give a broad overview of the Gaussian distribution and where the distribution comes from.

However, this is not a complete statistics course. This will be a brief overview of this particular distribution and assumes you're familiar with terms like mean, standard deviation, population, and sample where:

    population refers to the entire set of all data points. Like if you were measuring people's weights, then the population would be all people in the world.
    sample refers to a part of the population. In the weights example, you might take a random sample of the population since it would be practically impossible to measure the weights of all humans.
    mean is the average value, which in this case would be the average weight of all humans.
    standard deviation measures the spread in the data. Does the data tend to hover around the mean, or is the data more spread out?

If you aren't familiar with these terms or need a refresher, here is a resource that you might find helpful: sample vs population.
The Gaussian Distribution

So let's go straight to looking at a Gaussian distribution, and then we'll talk about what it is and how it relates to self-driving cars.

You might recognize this shape; it's oftentimes called a bell-shaped curve. Notice that the y-axis says "probability density function" just like the uniform continuous distribution.

The x-axis currently says "x-value"; however, the x-axis could take on any continuous variable like temperature, height, or velocity.
Gaussian Equation

While this graph might look difficult to draw, there is actually an equation that maps the x variable to the y variable. Here is the probability density function for the Gaussian distribution:

f(x)=12πσ2e−(x−μ)22σ2\LARGE f(x) = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi\sigma{^2}}}e^{\frac{-(x-\mu)^2}{2\sigma^2}}f(x)=2πσ2

​1​e2σ2−(x−μ)2​

This equation might look a bit intimidating, so let's break it down in the next part of the lesson.

Yes, that's correct. To put it another way: as the standard deviation increases, your uncertainty increases.

As the standard deviation increases, uncertainty increases as well. Compare the charts where standard deviation is 5 and standard deviation is 15. When the standard deviation is five, the distribution looks tall and skinny, which implies that the temperature is more likely to be near 50 degrees.

When the standard deviation increases to 15, the distribution gets flat and wide; the probability that the temperature is near 50 goes down while the probability that the temperature is farther to the left or to the right on the x-axis is increasing.

